# Introduction
When running a successful and demanding hospitality business, most hotel owners like a hotel that is running at full capacity and bringing in sizeable revenue. Most of the time hotel booking cancellations can be hurtful to business owners; although sometimes there are genuine reasons for guests to do so. These last-minute cancellations can result in lost revenue unless some measures are undertaken to mitigate the loss. The purpose of this project is to analyze Hotel Bookings data, investigate cancellations, and their underlying patterns; and suggest measures that can be implemented to reduce cancellations and secure revenue.

## **PROBLEM STATEMENT**
This dataset contains booking information for a city hotel and a resort hotel. It includes information such as when the booking was made, length to stay, the number of adults, children and/or babies, and the available parking spaces, among other things. All personally identifying information has been removed from the data.

**Objective:** We need to analyze the data to discover important factors that govern the bookings.

## **PROJECT SUMMARY**
In this project we have given a hotel booking analysis dataset to explore. By exploring i have found that there are two types of hotel one is City hotel and the second one is the Resort hotel. The dataset comprises of 119390 rows and 32 columns. All the columns are divided into three datatypes i.e, object, float and int. This datset also have duplicate,NaN and missing values.Total of 31994 duplicate values are present.And four columns are missing.The maximum number of missing values are from company i.e, 112593, followed by agent, country, and children.. The children coumn has least missing values.By moving further we have used many functions like describe(), columns(),etc.In this dataset we have both duplicates and missing values. So we have to deal with that and as a result we have replaced the null and missing values and also have dropped the duplicate values. We have found that there were some rows in which the combining values of adults, babies and childrens was 0 so this simply means there were no guests. So there were no bookings made. So as a result, we simply dropped the rows where combining values of adults, babies, and children column was 0. Then after this we did data wrangling which simply means data cleaning which is needed to be done before the data visualization. Then after cleaning the data we have started the data visualization part where we have used differnt charts such as pie chart, bar chart to analyse the data. Thus by this way we have explored the data and got to know that the data consists of important factors that govern the booking of the hotel.
